[IMP] payment providers: ingenico documentation updated (#2117)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/finance/payment_acquirers/ogone.rst

`Ogone <https://www.ingenico.com/>`_, also known as **Ingenico Payment Services** is a France-based
company that provides the technology involved in secure electronic transactions.

Configuration
=============

.. seealso::
   - :ref:`payment_acquirers/add_new`
   - `Ogone's documentation <https://epayments-support.ingenico.com/get-started/>`_.

Settings in Ogone
-----------------

Create an API user
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Log into your Ogone account and head to the :guilabel:`Configuration` tab.

You need to create an **API user** to be used in the creation of transactions from Odoo. While you
can use your main account to do so, using an **API user** ensures that if the credentials used in
Odoo are leaked, no access to your Ogone configuration is possible. Additionally, passwords for
**API users** do not need to be updated regularly, unlike normal users.

To create an **API user**, go to :menuselection:`Configuration --> Users` and click on
:guilabel:`New User`. The following fields must be configured:

.. _ogone/ogone:

> - :guilabel:`UserID`: you can choose anything you want, but the convention is to name it `OOAPI`.

Reviewer: There is no such convention, and I'm not sure if suggesting a cryptic name (is it O o 0) is a good idea. Wouldn't it be better to simply show an example?
```suggestion
- :guilabel:`UserID`: you can choose anything you want. For example: `APIUSER`.
```

> - :guilabel:`UserID`: you can choose anything you want, but the convention is to name it `APIUSER`.

Reviewer: This still isn't a convention, only an example.

Author: Is it actually even relevant to add anything, if the users can choose whatever they want?

Reviewer: Maybe not

- :guilabel:`User's Name, E-mail and Timezone`: you can enter the information you want.
- :guilabel:`Profile`: should be set to :guilabel:`Admin`.
- :guilabel:`Special user for API`: should be checked.

After the creation of the user, you are required to generate a password. Save the password and
**UserID**, as they will be required later on during the setup.

Set up Ogone for Odoo
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Ogone must now be configured to accept payments from Odoo. Head to :menuselection:`Configuration -->

> Technical Information --> Global Security Parameters`, select :guilabel:`SHA-1` as

Reviewer: Don't forget to update the forward-port branch for master to change this information, as SHA-512 becomes the new default starting with 16.0.

Reviewer: @toaa-odoo Il will ping you on the forward-port PR for master, you'll see ;)

:guilabel:`Hash Algorithm` and :guilabel:`UTF-8` as :guilabel:`character encoding`. Then, go to the
:guilabel:`Data and Origin Information` tab of the same page and leave the URL field of the
:guilabel:`e-Commerce and Alias Gateway` section blank.

You are now required to generate a **SHA-IN** passphrase. **SHA-IN** and **SHA-OUT** passphrases are
used to digitally sign the transaction requests and responses between Odoo and Ogone. By using these
secret passphrases and the **SHA-1** algorithm, both systems can ensure that the information they

> receive from the other was not altered or tampered with.

Reviewer: Reading this, I was confused because I thought you mistook the second SHA-IN key for the SHA-OUT key and made no mention of the fact that there are two SHA-IN fields (BTW, I checked the code and it *looks to me* that both are used in Odoo, so the values should be identical). Would it be possible to make one paragraph for IN keys and another for the OUT key so it's clearer to the reader?

> .. important::

Reviewer: I'd move this alert block up by one paragraph as it relates to the encryption algorithm and not the passphrase. Also, it could probably be a tip because changing this value should not be frequent.

   If you need to use another algorithm, such as **SHA-256** or **SHA-512**, within Odoo, activate
   the :ref:`developer mode <developer-mode>` and go to :menuselection:`General Settings -->
   Technical --> System Parameters`. From here, search for `payment_ogone.hash.function` and

>    change the value line to the desired algorithm (`SHA-256` or `SHA-512`).

Reviewer: The values should in fact be `sha1`, `sha256`, or `sha512` (lower-case ; all attached). See the [data for the related System Parameter](https://github.com/odoo/odoo/blob/15.0/addons/payment_ogone/data/payment_acquirer_data.xml#L22) for 'proof'.

Your **SHA-IN** and **SHA-OUT** passphrases should be different, and between 16 and 32 characters
long. Make sure to use the same **SHA-IN** and **SHA-OUT** passphrases throughout the entire Ogone
configuration, as Odoo only allows a single **SHA-IN** and single **SHA-OUT** passphrase. In the
:guilabel:`DirectLink and Batch` section of the screen, add the same **SHA-IN** passphrase as the
previous field. You can leave the IP address field blank.

When done, head to :menuselection:`Configuration --> Technical Information --> Transaction Feedback`
and check the following options:

- :guilabel:`I would like to receive transaction feedback parameters on the redirection URLs`:
  should be checked.

> - :guilabel:`Direct HTTP server-to-server request`: should to be set to *Online*.

Reviewer: IMP, `Online but switch to a deferred request when the online requests fail.` is a better option as it enables webhook notifications if the redirect fails.

- Both **URL** fields should contain the same following URL, with `example` replaced by your

>   database: `https://<example>/payment/ogone/accept`.

Reviewer: `/accept` is still supported but `/return` is the preferred one.
```suggestion
  database: `https://<example>/payment/ogone/return`.
```

> 

Reviewer: "Request method" can be GET but POST should be preferred. It creates fewer entries in the log files.

> - :guilabel:`Dynamic eCommerce Parameters` should contain contain the following values:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Dynamic eCommerce Parameters` should contain the following values:
```

  should be checked.
- :guilabel:`Direct HTTP server-to-server request`: should to be set to `Online but switch to a
  deferred request when the online request fails`.

> - Both **URL** fields should contain the same following URL, with `example` replaced by your
>   database: `https://<example>/payment/ogone/return`.

Reviewer: Either
```suggestion
- Both **URL** fields should contain the same following URL, with `example` replaced by your
  database: `https://example/payment/ogone/return`.
```
Or
```suggestion
- Both **URL** fields should contain the same following URL, with `<example>` replaced by your
  database: `https://<example>/payment/ogone/return`.
```
Otherwise people *will* put `https://<mydatabase>/...`

>   Odoo will specify these URLs for every transaction request.

Reviewer: Shouldn't it be mentioned first in the bulleted list?

- In the :guilabel:`All transaction submission modes` section, fill-out **SHA-OUT** passphrase and
  disable `HTTP request for status change`.

.. note::
   If you use tokenization (allowing users to save their cards), go to :menuselection:`Configuration

>    --> Alias` and set up the tokenization process according to your needs.

Reviewer: Isn't that a bit vague? Requiring the admin to enable tokenization on Ogone's side would allow you to remove the note at the very end of the page.

>   left empty, as Odoo will specify these URLs for every transaction request.

Reviewer: https://github.com/odoo/documentation/pull/2117#discussion_r904808420 was lost somewhere along the way.

.. important::
   If you wish to run tests with Ogone, change the :guilabel:`State` of the Test Account to

>    *Test Mode*. We recommend doing this on an Odoo test database, rather than on your main database.

Reviewer: Where should that be done?

:menuselection:`Configuration --> Alias` and set up the tokenization process according to your

> needs.

Reviewer: https://github.com/odoo/documentation/pull/2117#discussion_r904814169 was also wrongly resolved.

How would one know what they need to check on Ogone's side? There are many options and most admins don't know what "tokenization" actually means.

Author: The menus on Ogone's side are rather straightforward. Maybe I am missing something?

I still added the related info in the PR.
![Ogone](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/104567387/175931504-0d7d300d-083f-40ad-bc4a-87a8ca066a0e.png)
.

Reviewer: I'm not even sure we use any of those options. It could be worth trying to save a card on runbot while playing with the options on Ogone's side to see if they actually do something. For example, I don't believe we use their Hosted Tokenization Page.

Author: ![hello](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/104567387/176111783-881413ac-30c5-475a-aa21-72ab55b232a0.png)

I asked Dama about it and here's his answer. I couldn't test it because I got an error message everytime I tried to pay for something on an Odoo DB.

Author: Trying different settings didn't change anything it seems, I will remove that paragraph.

----------------

Credentials
~~~~~~~~~~~

To set up Ogone in Odoo, head to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Payment Acquirers`
and open the Ogone acquirer. In the :guilabel:`Credentials` tab, enter the **PSPID** of your Ogone

> account, and the fill-out the other fields as configured in your :ref:`Ogone portal <ogone/ogone>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
account, and fill out the other fields as configured in your :ref:`Ogone portal <ogone/ogone>`.
```

----------------

Credentials
~~~~~~~~~~~

To set up Ogone in Odoo, head to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Payment Acquirers`
and open the Ogone acquirer. In the :guilabel:`Credentials` tab, enter the **PSPID** of your Ogone

> account, and the fill out the other fields as configured in your :ref:`Ogone portal <ogone/ogone>`.

Reviewer: https://github.com/odoo/documentation/pull/2117#discussion_r904812487 was also wrongly resolved.

   - `Ogone's documentation <https://epayments-support.ingenico.com/get-started/>`_.

Settings in Ogone
-----------------

Create an API user
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Log into your Ogone account and head to the :guilabel:`Configuration` tab.

You need to create an **API user** to be used in the creation of transactions from Odoo. While you
can use your main account to do so, using an **API user** ensures that if the credentials used in
Odoo are leaked, no access to your Ogone configuration is possible. Additionally, passwords for
**API users** do not need to be updated regularly, unlike normal users.

To create an **API user**, go to :menuselection:`Configuration --> Users` and click on
:guilabel:`New User`. The following fields must be configured:

.. _ogone/ogone:

- :guilabel:`UserID`: you can choose anything you want.
- :guilabel:`User's Name, E-mail and Timezone`: you can enter the information you want.
- :guilabel:`Profile`: should be set to :guilabel:`Admin`.
- :guilabel:`Special user for API`: should be checked.

After the creation of the user, you are required to generate a password. Save the password and
**UserID**, as they will be required later on during the setup.

> 

Reviewer 2: In accordance with @AntoineVDV, add a tip here along the lines of: 
"If your user is already set up, make sure that it is activated without any errors. If not, simply click the "Activate(Errors)" button to reset your user."
We spent some time fixing the Ogone test account and that was one of the issues. It shows up on the Ogone account in Configuration - Users and then in the last column of the table containing the users.

Set up Ogone for Odoo
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Ogone must now be configured to accept payments from Odoo. Head to :menuselection:`Configuration -->
Technical Information --> Global Security Parameters`, select :guilabel:`SHA-1` as
:guilabel:`Hash Algorithm` and :guilabel:`UTF-8` as :guilabel:`character encoding`. Then, go to the

> :guilabel:`Data and Origin Information` tab of the same page and leave the URL field of the

Reviewer 2: "Data and Origin Information" is called "Data and origin verification" on Ogone

   :ref:`developer mode <developer-mode>` and go to :menuselection:`General Settings -->
   Technical --> System Parameters`. From here, search for `payment_ogone.hash.function` and change
   the value line to the desired algorithm (`sha-256` or `sha-512`).

You are now required to generate **SHA-IN** passphrases. **SHA-IN** and **SHA-OUT** passphrases are
used to digitally sign the transaction requests and responses between Odoo and Ogone. By using these
secret passphrases and the `sha-1` algorithm, both systems can ensure that the information they
receive from the other was not altered or tampered with.

Enter the same **SHA-IN** passphrase in both :guilabel:`Checks for e-Commerce & Alias Gateway` and
:guilabel:`Checks for DirectLink and Batch (Automatic)`. You can leave the IP address field blank.

Your **SHA-IN** and **SHA-OUT** passphrases should be different, and between 16 and 32 characters
long. Make sure to use the same **SHA-IN** and **SHA-OUT** passphrases throughout the entire Ogone
configuration, as Odoo only allows a single **SHA-IN** and single **SHA-OUT** passphrase.

In order to retrieve the **SHA-OUT** key, log into your Ogone account, go to

> :menuselection:`Configuration --> Technical --> Information --> Transaction feedback --> All

Reviewer 2: It should be Configuration --> Technical Information --> Transaction feedback ...

  database: `https://<example>/payment/ogone/return`.

- :guilabel:`Dynamic eCommerce Parameters` should contain the following values: `ALIAS`, `AMOUNT`,
  `CARDNO`, `CN`, `CURRENCY`, `IP`, `NCERROR` `ORDERID`, `PAYID`, `PM`, `STATUS`, `TRXDATE`. Other
  parameters can be included (if you have another integration with Ogone that requires them), but
  are not advised.
- In the :guilabel:`All transaction submission modes` section, fill out **SHA-OUT** passphrase and
  disable `HTTP request for status change`.

To allow your customers to save their credit card credentials for future use, head to
:menuselection:`Configuration --> Alias --> My alias information`. From this tab, you can configure
how the user can have its card details saved, for how long the information is saved, if a checkbox
to save the card information should be displayed, etc.

.. important::
   If you wish to run tests with Ogone, within the accounting app, go to
   :menuselection:`Configuration --> Payment Acquirers`. Click on :guilabel:`Ogone`, enable
   :guilabel:`Test Mode` and enter your credentials in the :guilabel:`Credentials` tab. We recommend

>    doing this on an Odoo test database, rather than on your main database.

Reviewer 2: Maybe move this to Settings in Odoo since this is about the settings on the Odoo side? :)

`Ogone <https://www.ingenico.com/>`_, also known as **Ingenico Payment Services** is a France-based
company that provides the technology involved in secure electronic transactions.

Configuration
=============

.. note::
   - For more extensive documentation, you can refer to Ogone's `own documentation
     <https://epayments-support.ingenico.com/en/get-started/>`_.
.. seealso::
   - :ref:`payment_acquirers/add_new`

Settings in Ogone
-----------------

Create an API user
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Log in into your Ogone account and head to the :guilabel:`Configuration` tab.

You need to create an **API user** that will be used to create transactions from Odoo. While you can
use your main account to do so, using an **API user** ensures that if the credentials used in Odoo
are leaked, no access to your Ogone configuration will be possible. Additionally, passwords for

> **API users** do not need to be updated regularly, unlike normal users.

Author: I think it's too important to be made separate.

:guilabel:`New User`. The following fields must be configured:

.. _ogone/ogone:

> - :guilabel:`UserID:` you can choose anything you want, but the convention is to name it `OOAP`.

Reviewer 3: wasn't OOAPI before your last change?

- :guilabel:`User's Name, E-mail and Timezone:` you can enter the information you want.

> - :guilabel:`Profile:` should be set to *Admin*.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Profile:` should be set to :guilabel:`Admin`.
```
(if it comes from a list, which I assume is the case)

.. _ogone/api_user:
To create an **API user**, go to :menuselection:`Configuration --> Users` and click on
:guilabel:`New User`. The following fields must be configured:

API User ID and Password
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.. _ogone/ogone:

If you already created a user and have both its ID and password, just copy them. You can also
generate a new password from :menuselection:`Configuration --> Users --> Your chosen user --> change
password`.
- :guilabel:`UserID:` you can choose anything you want, but the convention is to name it `OOAP`.
- :guilabel:`User's Name, E-mail and Timezone:` you can enter the information you want.
- :guilabel:`Profile:` should be set to *Admin*.
- :guilabel:`Special user for API:` should be checked.

If you don't have a user, create one by going to :menuselection:`Configuration --> Users -->
New User`. Set your **User ID** to get your **password** when you save your new user.
After the creation of the user, you are required to generate a password. Save the password and
**UserID**, as they will be required later on during the setup.

.. image:: ogone/ogone_new_user.png
   :align: center

>    :alt: Get your password when you save the new user.

Reviewer 3: don't forget to delete the image file as well.

> page and leave the URL field of the **e-Commerce and Alias Gateway** section blank.

Reviewer 3: I believe all things in bold should be guilabel, here.

> receive from the other was not altered or tampered with.

Author: I understand your comment: it's not really part of the process and just additional info, but I don't think it should be separated from the body. It is not really interesting on its own and makes much more sense if immediately related to its content.

> **DirectLink and Batch** section of the screen, add the same **SHA-IN** passphrase as the previous

Reviewer 3: Is it written "DirectLink and Batch" on the screen? Then that one is a guilabel too ^^

When done, head to :menuselection:`Configuration --> Technical Information --> Transaction Feedback`
and check the following options:

- **I would like to receive transaction feedback parameters on the redirection URLs:** should be
  checked.

> - **Direct HTTP server-to-server request:** should to be set to *Online*.

Reviewer 3: Whenever you refer to something on the screen (and not to its concept), then it's a guilabel.
So the names of the fields, and the values that you select from lists too.

> - Both **URL** fields should contain the same following URL:

Reviewer 3: For example, the URL wouldn't be a guilabel here, because that is not how it is written in the GUI. See the distinction? :)

  `https://<your-odoo-database-url>/payment/ogone/accept`.

.. image:: ogone/ogone-urls.png
   :align: center

>    :alt: Enter the aforementioned URL in both fields.

Reviewer 3: Now that I see it, it's clearly overkill. You can remove it (and delete the file) ^^ (sorry)

> - **Dynamic eCommerce Parameters** should contain contain the following values:

Reviewer 3: is this a guilabel too? ^^

>   `ALIAS, AMOUNT, CARDNO, CN, CURRENCY, IP, NCERROR, ORDERID, PAYID, PM, STATUS, TRXDATE`. Other

Reviewer 3: `ALIAS, AMOUNT, CARDNO, CN, CURRENCY, IP, NCERROR, ORDERID, PAYID, PM, STATUS, TRXDATE`
--> is a single value, but your text indicates multiple values.
If you separate multiple values with a comma, then it should be
`ALIAS`, `AMOUNT`, `CARDNO`,...

  parameters can be included (if you have another integration with Ogone that requires them), but
  are not advised.
- The **URL** fields for **HTTP redirection in the browser** can be left empty, as Odoo will specify
  these URLs for every transaction request.
- In the **All transaction submission modes** section, fill in **SHA-OUT** passphrase and disable
  **HTTP request for status change**.

.. note::
   - If you use tokenization (allowing users to save their cards), go to
     :menuselection:`Configuration --> Alias` and set up the tokenization process according to your
     needs.

.. important::
   - If you wish to run tests with Ogone, change the **State** of the Test Account to *Test Mode*.

>      We recommend doing this on an Odoo test database, rather than on your main database.

Reviewer 3: guess what :D

You need to create an **API user** that will be used to create transactions from Odoo. While you can
use your main account to do so, using an **API user** ensures that if the credentials used in Odoo
are leaked, no access to your Ogone configuration will be possible. Additionally, passwords for
**API users** do not need to be updated regularly, unlike normal users.

To create an **API user**, go to :menuselection:`Configuration --> Users` and click on **New User**.
The following fields must be configured:

- **UserID:** you can choose anything you want, the convention is to name it *OOAPI*
- **User's Name, E-mail and Timezone:** you can enter the information you want
- **Profile:** should be set to *Admin*
- **Special user for API:** should be checked

Upon creation of the user, you will be required to generate a password. Save the password and
**UserID**, as they will be required later on during the setup.

.. tip::
   - Use a password manager to generate a strong password and store it more easily.

Set up Ogone for Odoo
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Ogone must now be configured to accept payments from Odoo. Head to :menuselection:`Configuration -->

> Technical Information --> Global Security Parameters`, select **SHA-1** as **Hash Algorithm** and

Reviewer: See https://github.com/odoo/documentation/pull/1902#issuecomment-1160154751

> Technical Information --> Global Security Parameters`, select **SHA-1** as **Hash Algorithm** and

Reviewer 3: Cool, thanks :)

receive from the other was not altered or tampered with.

.. important::
   - If you need to use another algorithm, such as **SHA-256** or **SHA-512**, within Odoo, enable
     **Debug Mode** and go to :menuselection:`General Settings --> Technical -->System Parameters`.
     From here, search for **payment_ogone.hash.function** and change the value line to the desired
     algorithm (**SHA-256** or **SHA-512**).

Your **SHA-IN** and **SHA-OUT** passphrases should be different, and between 16 and 32 characters
long. Make sure to use the same **SHA-IN** and **SHA-OUT** passphrases throughout the entire Ogone
configuration, as Odoo only allows a single **SHA-IN** and single **SHA-OUT** passphrase. In the
**DirectLink and Batch** section of the screen, add the same **SHA-IN** passphrase as the previous
field. You can leave the IP address field blank.

When done, head to :menuselection:`Configuration --> Technical Information --> Transaction Feedback`
and check the following options:

- **I would like to receive transaction feedback parameters on the redirection URLs:** should be
  checked

> - **Direct HTTP server-to-server request:** should to be set to *Online*

Author: It's actually called **"Direct** HTTP server-to-server request"****, and a second, smaller heading called "Timing of request", which is not very visible. It is much clearer IMO as it is.

- The **URL** fields for **HTTP redirection in the browser** can be left empty, as Odoo will specify
  these URLs for every transaction request.
- In the **All transaction submission modes** section, fill in **SHA-OUT** passphrase and disable
  **HTTP request for status change**.

.. note::
   - If you use tokenization (allowing users to save their cards), go to
     :menuselection:`Configuration --> Alias` and set up the tokenization process according to your
     needs.

.. important::
   - If you wish to run tests with Ogone, change the **State** of the Test Account to *Test Mode*.
     We recommend doing this on an Odoo test database, rather than on your main database.

Settings in Odoo
----------------

Credentials
~~~~~~~~~~~

To set up Ogone in Odoo, head to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Payment Acquirers`
or :menuselection:`Website --> Configuration --> Payment Acquirers` and open the Ogone acquirer. In
the :guilabel:`Credentials` tab, enter the following information:

- **PSPID:** The **PSPID** of your Ogone account
- **API User ID:** Your **API user**'s ID (e.g. *OOAPI* if used conventionally)
- **API User Password:** The password of the **API user**

> - **SHA Key IN/OUT:** The **SHA-IN** and **SHA-OUT** passphrases set in the backend of Ogone

Reviewer 3: Is it necessary to explain the fields when the explanation is the same as the name of the field?

Maybe write at the line before
"enter the following information, as `configured on your Ogone portal <ref link to that paragraph above>`"

Optional configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Under the :guilabel:`Configuration` tab, you can check the option **Allow Saving Payment Methods**.
This option allows a customer to save their payment's details for future purchases, but *only* works

> if you have configured the tokenization under :menuselection:`Configuration --> Alias` in Ogone's

Author: The related note is so close to this part, adding a :ref: does not scroll the page. I believe they are close enough not to need it.

backend.

> Your Ogone account is now ready to be used with Odoo!

Reviewer 3: useless
